
This README file contains information on how to format, view, and print
the GLUT and related man pages contained in these subdirectories.

The manual pages in these subdirectories are formatted using the Unix
standard "man" macros.  You need [tn]roff software or the GNU groff
software to format these man pages.

The troff software package is one of the oldest computerized text
formatters still in use.  By historical convention, manual pages on
Unix systems are formatted with the "man" macro package for [tn]roff.
nroff is a version of troff that outputs formatted text suitable for
printing on a terminal or line printer.  Many versions of troff exist.
Many commercial Unix installations include troff, nroff, or another
variant such as ditroff or psroff.  Sometimes (as in the case of
SGI's IRIX) troff support is available as a separate option know as
"Documenter's Work Bench" (DWB).  GNU groff is an Open Source version
of troff.  If troff or nroff is not available on your system (for example,
if you use Linux or Windows), you can use GNU groff to format the manual
pages included in these subdirectories.

The main web page for information about GNU groff is:

  http://www.gnu.org/software/groff/groff.html

Windows users can use the free WinGROFF software to format these manual
pages.  A pre-compiled WinGROFF installation can be downloaded from:

  http://www.cs.vu.nl/~tmgil/misc/wingroff.html

Several examples are given below for formatting the .man files in the
included subdirectories.

Using nroff to format man pages for viewing with a "pager" program for
easy reading on a terminal:

  nroff -man glut.man | less

If "less" is not available on your system, try "more".

Using groff to format man pages as PostScript for printing to a
PostScript-compatible printer or viewing using a PostScript viewer such
as ghostview, xpsview, or gsview32:

  cd man/glut
  groff -Tps -man glut.man > glut.ps

The resulting "glut.ps" file contains PostScript that can be printed or
viewed.

You can also generate PostScript for all the GLUT man pages using groff
like this:

  cd man/glut
  groff -Tps -rC1 -man *.man > all_glut_man_pages.ps

The "-rC1" flag tells groff to number the pages continuously, rather
than start each new manual entry at 1.  Add the "-rD1" flag to make
different odd and even page footers for double-sided printing.

Automatic support for building these man pages in each subdirectory is
available using either (1) an X11-style Imakefile or (2) an IRIX-specific
Makefile.sgi for SGI workstations.  The Imakefile approach requires that
you have working InstallMan imake rules.   The Makefile.sgi requires
installation of the "dwb" package.  Note that GLUT's "man" subdirectory is
NOT built automatically by the top-level GLUT Makefile.sgi or Imakefile.

To use the Imakefile, do the following:

 1)  Edit the top-level Imakefile and add "man" to the SUBDIRS line so
     that it reads:

       SUBDIRS = lib test progs man

 2)  Use the top-level "mkmkfiles.imake" script to generate Makefiles
     for the GLUT distribution.

 3)  Go into the man directory and do a dry-run make:

        make -n install.man

     The "-n" option shows the commands to be run without actually
     running them.

 4)  If you are happy with the results, run "make" again without
     the "-n" option.

The easiest way to install GLUT man pages on IRIX systems is to
install the "man" subsystems of the pre-compiled GLUT installable
images for IRIX.  This way, the GLUT man pages will automatically
be installed in the correct place.  However if you insist on using
the Makefile.sgi on IRIX, do the following:

 1)  Make sure that you have the "dwb" package installed.  DWB
     ("Documenter's Work Bench") is an optional package that must be
     separately purchased.  IRIX does not have the "dwb" installed
     by default.  Check if you have "dwb" by running:

       versions | grep dwb

     If no "dwb" subsystems are displayed, you do not have "dwb".  If you
     do not have "dwb", you can still use GNU groff as described above.

 2)  As root, run the command:

       make install

     You may first want to use the "-n" dryrun option to make.

Good luck using the GLUT man pages.

- Mark Kilgard
  January 9, 2000
